---
{"Type":"Film Cast Information","up":"[[The Human Centipede (First Sequence)]]","down":null,"Yesterday":null,"Tomorrow":null,"aliases":["Human Centipede 1 Cast"],"Next":null,"Previous":null,"title":"Human Centipede First Sequence Cast","layout":"page","comments":null,"dg-publish":true,"dg-show-local-graph":null,"tags":["Tagless"],"dg-show-toc":null,"dg-hide-in-graph":null,"dg-permalink":null,"permalink":"/skull/concentrated-brain/random-facts/people-repellant/human-centipede/first-sequence/tidbits/the-human-centipede-first-sequence-cast/","dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---

<style id="Force_Custom_Fonts" type="text/css">@font-face{font-style:normal;font-family:"Merriweather";src:local("Merriweather")}@font-face{font-style:bolder;font-family:"Merriweather";src:local("Merriweather")}@font-face{font-style:normal;font-family:"Merriweather";src:local("Merriweather");unicode-range:U+0-FF,U+2E80-9FFF,U+F900-FAFF,U+FE30-FE4F,U+20000-2FA1F}@font-face{font-style:bolder;font-family:"Merriweather";src:local("Merriweather");unicode-range:U+0-FF,U+2E80-9FFF,U+F900-FAFF,U+FE30-FE4F,U+20000-2FA1F}@font-face{font-style:normal;font-family:"Merriweather";src:local("Merriweather");unicode-range:U+0-FF}@font-face{font-style:bolder;font-family:"Merriweather";src:local("Merriweather");unicode-range:U+0-FF}:not(pre):not(code):not(textarea):not(tt):not(kbd):not(samp):not(var){font-family:"Merriweather"!important}pre,code,textarea,tt,kbd,samp,var{font-family:monospace!important}pre *,code *,textarea *,tt *,kbd *,samp *,var *{font-family:monospace!important}</style>


# <span style="color:#000000"></span>

# Cast

Dieter Laser as Josef Heiter, a retired surgeon who specialised in the separation of conjoined twins, but in retirement is more interested in joining creatures together. Casting for the role of Heiter took place in Berlin, and Six intended to cast Laser before he had even read for the part, after Six saw a DVD of one of Laser's previous films. Laser had previously appeared in over 60 mostly German-language films, including [Der Unhold](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TheOgre(1996film) "The Ogre (1996 film)") and Baltic Storm (he speaks German in parts of First Sequence as well). Upon meeting him in Berlin, Six gave Laser a shot-by-shot explanation of Heiter's scenes, and Laser, impressed by Six's dedication and passion, agreed to take part in the film Laser contributed considerably to the development of Heiter's character. For example, because Heiter views the "centipede" as his pet, Laser felt that it was important that Heiter appear naked during a scene in which he swam in full view of his victims, because Laser said "you aren't ashamed to be naked" around a pet.
Ashley C. Williams as Lindsay, an American tourist, a friend of Jenny's, and the central section of the centipede. Auditioning for the roles of Jenny and Lindsay took place in New York City. Six said during the auditioning process, many actresses walked out of readings in disgust after hearing the full nature of the role. Others thought they would be able to take on the role, but found it was "too much" for them once they got onto their hands and knees behind another actor. Williams expressed concern about the nudity expected of her in the film, but took the role when she was assured it would be modest and of a non-sexual nature.
Ashlynn Yennie as Jenny, an American tourist, a friend of Lindsay's, and the rear section of the centipede. As with Williams, The Human Centipede was Yennie's first major film role. Yennie was one of several actresses to audition for the role, as the producers searched for an actress who would have good on-screen chemistry with Williams Yennie was able to further develop her relationship with Williams when the pair shared an apartment in the Netherlands during filming. Yennie auditioned to Ilona Six, the film's producer and sister of [[Skull/Concentrated Brain/Random Facts/People/I Dont Know/Tom Six\|Tom Six]], and did not meet [[Skull/Concentrated Brain/Random Facts/People/I Dont Know/Tom Six\|Tom Six]], who had viewed tapes of her reading, until fitting for the centipede special effects in the Netherlands. Yennie was drawn to the role by the humanity throughout the story, referring to how the three victims of Heiter are unwillingly forced into their situation. She also said the story was so realistic it scared her.
Akihiro Kitamura as Katsuro, a Japanese tourist and front section of the centipede. Having already acted in or written for a number of films and television shows (including popular American television series [Heroes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heroes(U.S.TVseries) "Heroes (U.S. TV series)")), Kitamura was a relatively experienced actor compared to other cast members. He auditioned for the role of Katsuro via Skype from Los Angeles after the casting director saw him on television and recommended him for the role. The rest of the cast did not meet Kitamura until the day before shooting commenced.
Rene de Wit as Truck Driver, one of Heiter's victims. De Wit had previously worked with Six in his 2008 film I Love Dries.
Andreas Leupold as Detective Kranz, a police officer.
Peter Blankenstein as Detective Voller, a police officer.

<center><sub>Done :)</sub></center>