---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/uni/fucking-kill-me/cell-fractionation-practical-report/","tags":["Tagless"]}
---


# using differential centrifugation to determine the organelle components of cell samples

## Abstract
This report relays the methodology used to determine the composition of guinea pig epithelial cells. Throughout this report the relative activity of the enzyme acid phosphatase [Bodansky, O. (1972). ACID Phosphatase. _Advances in Clinical Chemistry_, pp.43–147. doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/s0065-2423(08)60159-6.] is used as a marker to denote the action of the cell fractionation.[Henneberry, M.O., Engel, G. and Grayhack, J.T. (1979). Acid Phosphatase. _Urologic Clinics of North America_, 6(3), pp.629–641. doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/s0094-0143(21)01218-0.]  The report was created to show how cell organelles will group up as a result of fractionation and how fractionation becomes a harder process when the cells have been frozen as a result of their being more rigid.



## Introduction 
Cell fractionation is the lysing of cells in order to extract the organelles from within them. The centripetal force generated by a centrifuge puts the cells in question under too much pressure making their structure collapse. the dense cells form at the bottom as a pellet solid mass of cells () whereas the less dense cells form a supernatant (liquid-like slurry of the components) [Castle, J.D. (2004). Overview of cell fractionation. _Current Protocols in Protein Science_, [online] Chapter 4, p.Unit 4.1. doi:https://doi.org/10.1002/0471140864.ps0401s37.]. there is also density gradient centrifugation that wasn't used because it requires a medium which we were unable to aquire. [Suzuki, K., Bose, P., Leong-Quong, R.Y., Fujita, D.J. and Riabowol, K. (2010). REAP: A two minute cell fractionation method. _BMC Research Notes_, [online] 3(1). doi:https://doi.org/10.1186/1756-0500-3-294.]

Epithelial cells sourced from guinea pig intestines were centrifuged and sixteen of the eighteen millilitres were were used to create further samples made up of the pellet (result of centrifugation) and one hundred millilitres of of 0.3 molar sucrose solution. The samples in the results (A, b, C, D and E) are the products of this process. 

Samples F and G were produced similarly, the difference being that these were frozen (-20°C) overnight then centrifuged at 150,000 for an hour. Sample F is the supernatant, and, sample g is the pellet resuspended in what would have been the volume of the supernatant.

The enzyme acid phosphatase is located inside eukaryotic cells and converts p-Nitrophenyl Phosphate into p-Nitrophenol [Andersch, M.A. and Szczypinski, A.J. (1947). Use of P-Nitrophenylphosphate as the Substrate in Determination of Serum Acid Phosphatase*. _American Journal of Clinical Pathology_, 17(7_ts), pp.571–574. doi:https://doi.org/10.1093/ajcp/17.7_ts.571.‌] so if the production of p-Nitrophenol can be measured then the composition of the cell can be denoted through the abundance of phosphatase. This measurement is taken by reacting the p-Nitrophenol with NaOH which produces a yellow colouring. The yellow colour allows for the relative abundance to be measured.

The aim of this experiment is to identify the structure of the major macromolecules and to understand cellular processes within the cell



## Methods 
Mostly sticking to the protocol established, however, the cuvette holder held fewer cuvettes than needed so it was important to empty the contents back into the original test tubes to avoid cross contamination and maintain safety. Along the way it is possible to watch as the colour shifts and makes for an easy signifier of p-Nitrophenol production as well as comparison towards the end of the testing sequence.



## Results 

As the experiment was carried out the colour of the samples slowly started to turn yellow and deepen as the organelles underwent reactions. If the experiment were carried out successfully you would expect ot see cells with more availability to nucleic acids and proteins.

Figure 1 and 2 both show possible results that can be obtained using this methodology, a higher absorbance value meaning that to some degree the solution had changed colour to show that the desired reaction had in fact occurred .

| Sample | Test absorbance(AU) | Control Absorbance(AU) | Test minus control absorbance(AU) | Relative activity(/ml/hour) | Total activity(/hour) | Activity per fraction (%) |
| ------ | ------------------- | ---------------------- | --------------------------------- | --------------------------- | --------------------- | ------------------------- |
| A      | 0.710               | 0.000                  | 0.710                             | 42.600                      | 17040                 | 100                       |
| B      | 0.790               | 0.000                  | 0.790                             | 47.820                      | 4782                  | 28.063                    |
| C      | 1.069               | 0.000                  | 1.069                             | 64.140                      | 6414                  | 37.641                    |
| D      | 2.500               | 0.028                  | 2.472                             | 148.320                     | 14832                 | 87.042                    |
| E      | 2.091               | 0.004                  | 2.087                             | 125.220                     | 12522                 | 73.486                    |
| F      | 0.785               | 0.028                  | 0.757                             | 45.420                      |                       |                           |
| G      | 0.437               | 0.016                  | 0.421                             | 25.260                      |                       |                           |
**Figure 1.** results of multiple cell fractionation samples, A being the original homogenate, F and G being a separate frozen then thawed out sample

| Sample | Test absorbance(AU) | Control Absorbance(AU) | Test minus control absorbance(AU) | Relative activity(/ml/hour) | Total activity(/hour) | Activity per fraction (%) |
| ------ | ------------------- | ---------------------- | --------------------------------- | --------------------------- | --------------------- | ------------------------- |
| A      | 1.226               | 0.103                  | 1.123                             | 67.38                       | 26952                 |                           |
| B      | 0.385               | 0.097                  | 0.288                             | 17.28                       | 1728                  | 64.114                    |
| C      | 0.615               | 0.093                  | 0.522                             | 31.32                       | 3132                  | 11.621                    |
| D      | 2.270               | 0.101                  | 2.169                             | 130.14                      | 13014                 | 48.286                    |
| E      | 1.040               | 0.099                  | 0.941                             | 56.46                       | 5646                  | 20.948                    |
| F      | 0.416               | 0.100                  | 0.316                             | 18.96                       |                       |                           |
| G      | 0.160               | 0.105                  | 0.055                             | 3.3                         |                       |                           |
**Figure 2.** repeat of cell the same fractionation attempt to clear up any anomalous results and provide insight into patterns


In both figures you can see that the control samples all ended up without colouration while all of the test samples displayed some level of tint, as a result of the p-Nitrophenol reacting with the NaOH. The yellow colouring proves that there was organelle activity in the cell samples. Sample A and D have the highest absorbencies (absolute value and relative value) because A is the original homogenate and D contains the nucleus.

The relative activity per millilitre per hour is calculated by multiplying the "test minus control absorbance" by 60
1.123\*60=67.38
0.288\*60=17.28
the activity per hour is then that multiplied by 100 for all of the samples that arent the original homogenate
17.28\*100=1728
This is because the original hemogonate has been diluted by the original seperation (eight times less volume than originally) and was made of 50ml stock instead of 100 giving us
67.38\*8\*50= 26952
Then the calculation for the percentage is the samples' activity divided by the original hemogonates activity
1728/26952=64.114

Figure three presents the composition of the samples provided, since cell fractions have different relative densities they tend to gather towards one sample (DNA in sample B or RNA in sample D)"

| marker enzyme or substance  | Sample B (% per fraction) | Sample C (% per fraction) | Sample D (% per fraction) | Sample E (% per fraction) | total recovery (%) |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------- | ------------------------- | ------------------------- | ------------------------- | ------------------ |
| succinic acid dehydrogenase | 8                         | 66                        | 18                        | 0                         | 92                 |
| DNA                         | 80                        | 5                         | 0                         | 0                         | 85                 |
| RNA                         | 13                        | 12                        | 66                        | 10                        | 101                |
| Acid phosphatase            | 0                         | 17                        | 16                        | 90                        |                    |

**Figure 3.** Suggested composition of selected the samples based on prior results



## Discussion 


| Sample | Acid phosphatase activity per fraction (%) | Acid phosphatase activity per fraction (%) |
| ------ | ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------ |
|        | severe homogenisation                      | mild homogenisation                        |
| B      | 0                                          | 36                                         |
| C      | 1                                          | 10                                         |
| D      | 7                                          | 44                                         |
| E      | 85                                         | 8                                          |
**Table 4.** The acid phosphatase activity expressed as percentage per fraction in each sample B-E following severe or mild homogenisation.

The lysosomes are most likely to be in sample C because that sample showed the least change which could imply there were fewer organelles (and more lysosomes) in the sample. Sample B is most likely comprised of the nucleus due to the quantity of DNA discovered in the sample. 

Succinic acid dehydrogenase is a respiratory enzyme found in the mitochondria, implying that C had a lesser variety of organelles. 

The RNA found in sample D implies that it is comprised of ribose nucleotides and so could be the endoplasmic reticulum (for protein synthesis).  

Severe force during fractionation would cause the cells to break open more allowing the organelles to be more easily released and detected. On the other hand, large organelles to be possibly damaged by the process affecting their perceived presence. Damaged cells could react more to the NAOH because the p-Nitrophenol would more easily escape from the cell wall/membrane (depending on the cell type). This would make the colour seem more vibrant than would be accurate.

F and G both react less to this methodology which implies that the freezing  has given the cells a more rigid structure. The rigidity would allow fewer of the organelles to be accessed by the p-Nitrophenol and react less in general (lower temperatures decrease reactivity of chemicals and the efficacy of enzymes). 


### References 
[listed in Harvard (Cite them Right) format and appropriately cited within the main body of the report.]  
Bodansky, O. (1972). ACID Phosphatase. _Advances in Clinical Chemistry_, pp.43–147. doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/s0065-2423(08)60159-6.
Henneberry, M.O., Engel, G. and Grayhack, J.T. (1979). Acid Phosphatase. _Urologic Clinics of North America_, 6(3), pp.629–641. doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/s0094-0143(21)01218-0.
Andersch, M.A. and Szczypinski, A.J. (1947). Use of P-Nitrophenylphosphate as the Substrate in Determination of Serum Acid Phosphatase*. _American Journal of Clinical Pathology_, 17(7_ts), pp.571–574. doi:https://doi.org/10.1093/ajcp/17.7_ts.571.

‌

‌


### Word Count details
952